hey guys before the video starts i just
wanted to let you all know that our
coach program is actually expanding
threefold
coaches are all personally trained by me
and are there to help you with problems
like procrastination
motivation depression anxiety and
helping you get unstuck
so check out the first link in the
description below
hey guys dr k here today i'd like to
talk to you guys about
unlocking motivation which i think is a
really important topic
so a lot of times we feel like we don't
have motivation we feel like we're
unmotivated and we can't bring ourselves
to do things but if you really tunnel
down and pay attention to your thought
process
what you'll often find is that you
actually really do want to do something
and that you actually have a lot of
motivation it's not that you
lack motivation it's that your
motivation is actually blocked by
something else
and this is a really interesting problem
because a lot of times when people think
that they lack motivation they do things
to boost their motivation
and none of that stuff really tends to
work because even if you boost your
motivation
if it's kind of blocked or locked up
then motivation boosting strategies
aren't going to work
so i'd like to explain this kind of
principle which is that if you
really really want to do something but
you can't seem to bring yourself to do
it
what could be going on and how to
actually unlock or unblock that
motivation
so this actually starts way back in
india so when i was 21 years old i was
lucky or desperate enough to go to india
and i stayed in a monastery for a few
months
and i had the privilege of working with
a couple of very wise monks
and one of them explained to me that
each desire you have each
intention you have each goal you set for
yourself
whether it be small or big is a little
bit of a spiritual drain
that kind of pulls at you until it's
completed or finished
you can kind of think about each desire
that you have in your mind
as a karmic tie and each of those karmic
ties that you create for yourself
actually
tie you up and and bind you up until you
actually let yourself get free of them
and so we kind of know this because we
know that like generally speaking
people with who set goals will sort of
move towards that goal
so if we really think about each desire
or each intention that we kind of set
sort of pulls us in that direction the
problem arises when we get tied up with
too many different intentions and too
many different desires
and so his solution to me was that if i
go back and actually
unburden myself of old karmic ties that
my spiritual energy will increase
and i'll be able to be more successful
in life and so that may be like a really
cool
kind of spiritual perspective but does
that
actually map onto science or does that
map onto our
understanding of the mind let's take a
look so the first
example that i want to come up with is
the idea that you know we get paralyzed
when we're overwhelmed by a bunch of
tasks
so generally speaking if i have one task
that i want to complete
um you know wanting to do something sort
of drives us to do it
but what happens is the number of tasks
i need to complete increases
what tends to happen is with each task
that i add to my plate
i start to become more and more
paralyzed and eventually what happens is
people can become
so overwhelmed that they become
completely paralyzed
and can't complete any of the tasks at
all for those of you who have fallen
really really behind in school or work
or other things
sometimes you know if you even if you've
fallen behind in life
you have to do so many things that you
can't even get started
so if we really like stop and and look
at that what we begin to see is that
actually maps onto the spiritual
principle of karmic ties pretty well
that the more things that you need to
complete the more
paralyzed you become and the harder it
is to move forward
each of those desires you set for
yourself each of your those goals you
set for yourself
is actually kind of a karmic tie that
kind of binds you up and paralyzes you
and then you eventually say oh i don't
have motivation because you have so much
stuff to do and you can't bring yourself
to do it
if you really tunnel down and you ask
that person how important is this
let's say it's the most important thing
in the world i really want to do it i
just
can't so if we really look at that what
we see is not that they don't
have motivation but that their
motivation is blocked let's take another
example
about how this sort of principle works
from psychology
and this example is something that's
really fascinating because we take it
for granted
every day and this example is in
understanding
how our mind remembers things so i know
it sounds weird but like let's just
pause for a second
and realize that our mind remembers
stuff right
your mind reminds you to pick up milk or
reminds you that you have to work on
your resume or reminds you that
oh maybe like you should apologize to
someone for like being late
or your mind reminds you about all kinds
of things and so if we look at the
process of remembering how does that
work
so we have a conscious mind and you know
you may be going throughout your day and
you're like playing games or watching tv
or whatever
and then something somewhere in your
mind
catapults a particular thought into your
conscious mind oh by the way remember we
have to dot dot dot remember we have to
dot dot dot
and so if we really look at this what
what we must conclude is that
some part of our mind is actually
keeping track of
all of our incomplete tasks and the more
incomplete tasks we have the more your
subconscious mind has to keep track of
and the more it has to remember and the
more
its hands are full with keeping track of
all of these tasks
and so what does that mean for people
who have blocked motivation so
let's take a look at that so we find in
people who have kind of blocked
motivation
is that their conscious mind tells them
to do something
something but the rest of their being
their subconscious mind
can't really support them in completing
that task right so you tell yourself
hey i really need to work on my resume
but then like the rest of your mind sort
of
you know you're kind of telling yourself
that the rest of your mind doesn't kind
of join you in that task
and the reason is because it's hands are
full right the more that your
unconscious mind
has to keep track of things and remember
things it sort of
serves as kind of like a cognitive load
or cognitive drain
and when your unconscious mind is filled
with tasks to keep track of
it can't actually support you in moving
forward and actually completing tasks
so each of these incomplete tasks is a
psychological burden for your
unconscious
and as long as your unconscious mind is
is burdened you're not going to be able
to
on the motivation that you consciously
have and so these two examples
the idea that you know motivation is is
blocked or we become paralyzed with an
overwhelming number of tasks
or even that the more stuff that we have
to remember or hold on to unconsciously
the less energy we have that sounds like
a wonderful
theoretical psychological explanation so
the next question and i think this is
important because
you know dr k is an evidence-based
person and i really like to look at data
is there any data to support any of the
spiritual hokey stuff or
any of these psychological theories and
it turns out there's
amazing data for it and that's what i'd
like to share with you guys next
and what we're going to look at is
actually alcoholics anonymous
and i love this example because if we
think about an alcoholic
an alcoholic is a person who knows or
hopefully
knows that they need to quit drinking
right they wake up every day and they
tell themselves i've got to stop
drinking i've got to stop drinking i've
got to stop drinking
so if you look at their conscious mind
their conscious mind is
highly highly motivated but other parts
of their being
their body their brain their unconscious
call it whatever you want to
the addiction is kind of floating around
the surface
around the edges of the the conscious
mind and takes control of them
and keeps them actually paralyzes them
from
following their motivation so i think
alcoholics are a great example of sort
of motivation that's
locked up or interfered with by other um
you know parts of our mind and so the
question is
what what do alcoholics do and does this
principle play it all
into becoming sober and the answer is
absolutely yes
so if you look at alcoholics anonymous
there it's a 12-step program and one of
the steps is what they call making
amends
and what the making amends step is is
that you actually literally go into your
past
and you go you think about every person
that you've wronged
um usually kind of related around
drinking and then you sort of do your
best to make amends with them so you
like track people down and you apologize
you try to basically fix everything that
you've done wrong in the past
and the really interesting thing is that
even as people do the this step
sometimes they'll relapse right so
they'll relapse and they start drinking
alcohol and you may think that that's a
failure
but people in aaa say that you need to
work the steps
so it's not necessarily that you even
need to succeed right away it's that you
just
keep working at it so even if you have a
relapse you should still go and make
amends if you create a new problem with
your drinking you should go and make
amends
and the more you work at it you work the
steps
the more amends you make something
magical starts to happen
i've worked with a lot of people with
alcohol addiction and i think the
biggest
indicator of success in aaa is whether
they're actually able to complete this
step
and what i find is almost magical that
as they start to make amends and as they
make more and more amends suddenly like
they start to gain power over their
alcohol and
whereas one month ago they wake up and
they have to start their morning with a
drink
one month later after they've sort of
like made all these amends it seems
completely unrelated
but they wake up and they suddenly like
their conscious mind
is more in control and they're able to
actually attain sobriety which is what
happens in alcoholics anonymous
and so the interesting question is how
does that work and it maps on
perfectly to the spiritual principle and
these two psychological principles
that people with alcohol problems tend
to have a lot of
pent-up stuff floating around in their
unconscious
and so their unconscious mind is really
burdened and even though they
consciously want to move forward
their motivation is blocked by sort of
all of this crap from their past
and the more that they settle those
karmic ties
the more they become unbound or untied
from their previous desires
previous intentions tedious karma the
more they're able to actually align
their motivation and move forward so i
think this is a really
fascinating example because at the end
of the day
it's been my personal experience as well
that when you
it's not about finding motivation it's
about
unblocking your motivation and the way
to unblock your motivation if you really
really want to do something and you're
paralyzed in order to do it
i want you guys to be really careful
from a diagnostic perspective
if you really want to do something in
your paralyzed you don't actually lack
motivation
your motivation is restrained and so
you've gotta
unrestrain it you've gotta free it up
and the way that you do that
is actually by settling karmic deaths
from the pest
so if you guys feel stuck in life i know
it sounds completely counterintuitive
but instead of worrying about what you
need to do today
go and fix things from the past go and
apologize to the people that you need to
go and try to right the wrongs from
yesterday
and i know it sounds really bizarre but
like if you really look at it a lot of
people when they need to complete
something and they
struggle with motivation they try to
really push through that block and they
push themselves push themselves push
themselves
and it doesn't work and so oddly enough
this can really free you
up a lot and i highly recommend that the
more that you settle your past
the more that you unburden your
unconscious mind
the freer you're going to feel and then
suddenly you're going to wake up one day
and you're going to
your conscious mind is going to tell you
hey i need to do this thing
and then something magical is gonna
happen you're actually gonna do it
and it's gonna feel free it's gonna feel
easy
it's gonna feel effortless and that's
what i really want you guys to learn
i want you guys to learn you know not
how to work harder but to understand how
does motivation work
what holds us back and as you start to
unblock it your life is
absolutely going to transform so i hope
that's really helpful
i hope you guys give it a shot and i
wish you all the best
you